README.MD, before:

# Database Version Control Module

## Overview
There is a need to store the upgrade history for a given database instance so it can be safely and easily upgraded when a given version of an application or module is deployed.  This Database Version Control Module (VCM) will serve to inform data staff of which database module version is installed on a given database instance and when each database module upgrade was applied to the instance.  This module is used to apply the necessary database upgrades in the correct order to deploy a given database module version for an associated application/module.

## Prerequisites:
- Oracle 11g or higher

## Installing
- [Installation instructions](./docs/Installing%20or%20Upgrading%20the%20DB%20Version%20Control%20Module.MD)

## Resources
- [VCM Documentation](./docs/DB%20Version%20Control%20Module%20Documentation.MD)

## Version Control Platform
- Git

## Authors
- Jesse Abdul - Initial work

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 - see the [LICENSE.MD](./LICENSE.MD) for details

## Disclaimer
This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.

Commit message:

--DB version control: Documentation Update--
The "Overview" section for each of the following documents was updated to make it more concise:
README.MD
docs\DB Version Control Module Documentation.MD
docs\DB Version Control Module SOP.MD

docs\todo.txt was updated to mark items that were completed in a previous update

README.MD, after:

# Database Version Control Module

## Overview
The Database Version Control Module (VCM) was developed to provide a safe and easy way to install and upgrade database modules deployed on a given Oracle database instance.  The VCM provides information on which database module versions were installed and when they were installed on a database instance.  This module is used to apply the necessary database upgrades in the correct order to upgrade a given database module to a desired version.

## Prerequisites:
- Oracle 11g or higher

## Installing
- [Installation instructions](./docs/Installing%20or%20Upgrading%20the%20DB%20Version%20Control%20Module.MD)

## Resources
- [VCM Documentation](./docs/DB%20Version%20Control%20Module%20Documentation.MD)

## Version Control Platform
- Git

## Authors
- Jesse Abdul - Initial work

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 - see the [LICENSE.MD](./LICENSE.MD) for details

## Disclaimer
This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.
